SUTTONMERE flats residents, in Morningside, have accused metro police of failing to act against taxi drivers who, they allege, have turned their neighbourhood into an illegal rank. Eight complaints have been lodged with the municipality since March, but residents said nothing had changed. They claimed taxi drivers who operated from Windermere Centre to the CBD created a rank on Churchill Road while waiting for passengers. They said taxi drivers double-parked and blocked the entrances to some residential complexes. Loganayagee Moodley blamed the police for not enforcing the by-laws, which had led to the area becoming a free-for-all. “We have failed in the battle against prostitution in our neighbourhood because police failed to act timeously when scantily clad women started soliciting work here. “Some residents have tried to sell their properties but nobody wants to buy because of the social ills. This used to be a sought-after suburb. “Now taxi drivers have also become a law unto themselves. They have no regard for residents. We phoned metro police on several occasions but nothing has been done,” she said. Another resident said they had talked to the taxi drivers themselves. “They just move away and come back later. There are no bins for litter and there are no toilets. They urinate against our walls and throw rubbish all over. “The smell is really bad and metro police is aware of it, but they do nothing about it. They just drive past.” When City Watch visited the area this week, taxis could be seen parked along the road. A driver who declined to be named denied they were causing any disturbance. “We only park here for a few minutes while we wait for our turns at the shopping centre. We have noted the concerns from residents and we will move to another spot”, he said. Metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad encouraged residents to report issues with public transport directly to the Metro Police Public Transport Unit. “Residents can call 0313610000 for any public transport issues.” SUNDAY TRIBUNE