Durban – Reality TV star and polygamist Musa Mseleku has broken his own record selling yet another 10 tickets to his private dinner where he will be in hot pursuit for wife number five. According to Sihle Seleke, Mseleku’s Public Relations agent, RSVPs were already coming in from women who were at the Durban July on Saturday before an official announcement. "I witnessed at the Durban July that it was husbands or boyfriends who were holding their partners hands walking up to Mr Mseleku asking him for permission that their partners take pictures with him," said Seleke. "Mr Mseleku is very surprised that men are bringing their partners to him." Last week Mseleku and his team announced they would be hosting an exclusive dinner at a secret location at R 5 000 a seat. It was said that the idea arose from the messages Mseleku received daily on social media from women wishing to spend time with him. Hours after the invitation was circulated on social media platforms all ten tickets had been sold out. According to Seleke, the money will cover venue costs, dinner, activities for the evening as well as Mseleku’s appearance fee. The venue to this secret dinner will only be revealed on the night of the event. On the rumours that this was a money making scheme by Mseleku, Seleke said there was no truth to such statements women had begged Mseleku to be amongst those that would be seated on his table. He obliged. "That is a brutal lie, the only reason that the dinner was extended is because if you were around the Greyville Racecourse you would have seen how women were throwing themselves at Mr Mseleku," said Seleke. "How can a man who has bought Mercedes Benz cash for his 4 wives want to make money in this manner. Women were stopping him wanting to know why this dinner had been closed." Speaking on behalf of his four wives, MaCele, MaNgwabe, MaKhumalo and MaYeni Seleke said they were overwhelmed by the response and love shown by South African women to their husband. "MaYeni was at the Durban July she witnessed men bringing wives to her husband." To those who still had a glimmer of hope in being number five and didn't make the list, Seleke said unfortunately "it is done, it is closed, it is sealed" they will not be taking anymore ladies. The last episode of season 3 of Mseleku's reality TV show, Uthando Nesthembu, aired on Mzansi Magic Dstv channel 161 last week Sunday. Sunday Tribune